and we begin with events in the Middle
East where Israel appears to be trying
to gather international support
following the Iranian air strikes but
has not so far at least carried out any
direct military action in response
instead Israel is calling for more
sanctions on Iran which itself has
warned Israel against attempting any
retaliation following those drone and
missile attacks which Iran says were a
response to an Israeli attack on its
diplomatic mission in Syria Chief
International correspondent Lee duet has
been sending us updates from
Jerusalem Israel says it is now
launching a diplomatic offensive the
Israeli foreign minister has written he
says to 32 countries around the world
urging them to impose even more
sanctions against the Islamic Republic
of Iran the foreign minister Israel Katz
posted this on X formerly Twitter saying
Israel that Iran has to be stopped now
for it is too late and that is the
message that's also being sounded by
Leading senior military officials here
in Israel including the chief of staff
leftenant General hery halvi he said
that Israel would have to respond he
made the comments by visiting the Neva
team Airbase in southern Israel where
some of Iran's missiles did actually hit
in the early hours of Sunday morning
although Israel says there was limited
damage Israel says only a handful of
missiles actually got through of the 350
suicide drones and Cru and ballistic
missiles which were fired by Iran Iran
says its retaliatory strike was in
response to Israel's attack on its
diplomatic compound in the Syrian
Capital Damascus on April the 1st Iran's
foreign minister Amir abdan has
reiterated that message in a telephone
conversation with the un Secretary
General Antonio gues saying that Iran
acted in legitimate self-defense Iran
too is calling for restraint saying it
doesn't want this to escalate into a
wider War we're going to look at the
Peril in this moment but just to remind
you that this tension takes place in the
midst of the ongoing Israel Gaza War
it's the
193rd day of war and today there are
reports fighting in the Gaza Strip and
most particularly in bet hanon in the
Northeast there are also reports that
more Aid is now getting into Gaza from
the north we're getting reports on the
ground and that is what Israel is saying
that news is being greeted with relief
for many many weeks now a agencies have
been warning that more than half of the
population of Gaza is facing acute
hunger
well let's now cross to the Qatari
Capital Doha to join Miranda kamrava who
is the director of the Iranian studies
unit at the Arab Center for research and
policy studies welcome to BBC
news thank you leas good to be
here of course you are following every
uh Twist and Turn of this escalating
crisis between Israel and Iran how would
you describe this particular
moment well the Israelis crossed the red
line by attacking Iran's diplomatic
compound in Damascus and then the
Iranians crossed uh another red line uh
by attacking Israeli soil and so we're
at a very uh precarious in fact
dangerous moment where we're likely to
see an Israeli retaliatory strike for
Iran's retaliatory strike and so the
Vicious Cycle is likely to continue
unfortunately this moment seems to
underline the the dangerous differences
in perception Iran is saying this was a
very limited a very calibrated a strike
it caused limited casual limited damage
for Israel of course it was a reckless
strike which breached its security and
must there must be a retaliation and
that is what is going to fuel this
conflict is it
not absolutely and in fact uh I think uh
we do see that the Iranians did hold
back they had to somehow retaliate for
the attack on their uh Embassy compound
and so as far as they're concerned
deterrence has been reestablished and
now they're saying that if Israel
attacks Iran again or Iranian interests
or Personnel uh there will be more of
this kind kind of retaliatory strike of
course netanyahu's political predicament
inside Israel don't allow for restraint
and we've seen Netanyahu have a penchant
for overreaction he's also under
pressure from the right flank of his own
cabinet and so unfortunately as you
mentioned we're at a precarious and very
dangerous
moment indeed and the speculation now
seems to be that even though there are
disagreements within the War cabinet and
we are hearing that the cabinet may meet
again today some of the former U
military generals saying we should we
should we should retaliate now others
saying let's build our International and
our regional Coalition first because
they are emphasizing that this Coalition
the support Israel is receiving at this
moment that matters
too absolutely and uh also crucial is
the support that the United States will
give to is Israel both
diplomatically and uh militarily and
we've uh heard very loud and clear
messages coming out of Washington that
is that the United States would not
assist Israel on an attack uh uh on
Iranian soil and so I think that's also
given some pause to Israeli military
commanders do they really want to go it
alone uh knowing that Iran has this
so-called axis of resistance
that it can activate when it feels very
threatened Marin comad thank you very
much it's always good to hear your
perspective no doubt we'll hear from you
again as this crisis continues to unfold
and as I mentioned uh during that uh
discussion that we are hearing reports
that the war cabinet will meet again
today this will be its third meeting
since uh that unprecedented attack in
the early hours of Sunday morning what
is absolutely clear is that uh Israel
has decided it will respond but will it
retaliate by attacking Iran directly
that would also be unprecedented after
Decades of a shadow war and covert
operations will it attack some of U
Iran's proxies and Lebanon Iraq Syria uh
or even indeed in Yemen or will they
wait and build a coalition these these
are questions which matter and they
matter to the Future stability at this
region in the midst of what is already a
very very volatile time as our world
affairs correspondent at least you set
there with the latest lines uh from the
Middle East